Questions.
>> Does the order of use states matter?
I don't think so.
I can't fathom a reason
why that would matter.
It's a good question though.
>> Can you have multiple use effects?
>> Yeah,
you can have as many effects as you want.
Sometimes it's very necessary.
So for example,
this use effect depends on animal, but
maybe I have a different effect like that
state depends on, so maybe that's like,
I don't know, this is the worst
idea ever but we're gonna do it.
Use effect, And
then we're just gonna alert the user,
cuz I am a terrible designer.
Alert.
I already feel gross about this.
>> It's gonna be great.
>> I feel like something should
be yelling at you for doing this.
>> My heart is yelling at me.
This is a case where one maybe quit your
job, and two, [LAUGH] where you'd want two
different effects cuz now they're
contingent on different things changing.
It's a good question.
I'm concerned about leaving that there,
but
we're gonna try it cuz now I'm curious.
Yeah.
>> Is hooks kind of a JavaScript
up pattern essentially,
or what is the actual mechanism
that makes hooks work?
Can we use them in pure JavaScript or
is it like a React specific thing?
>> That's a good question.
So let's define hooks as a paradigm.
It's not like a specific construct or
anything like that,
it's like a methodology of writing code,
that basically I have a function that's
going to be called frequently and
then I'm going to be feeding state
into a non-stateful function.
Maybe a function that's intended to
be as the least stateful that it
possibly can be.
The way that we're using functions
precisely now this use state and
use effect this is hard tied to React.
You cannot pull use state out of React and
use it in something else.
Because this is a React specific construct
that ties directly into the React library,
the React rendering layer,
you can't use use state outside
of React from the React library.
But there are other libraries out there
now that let you do it in vanilla
JavaScript and I believe Kyle Simpsons,
the one that wrote them,
another great friend of masters teacher.
Catify hooks.
This is the one that I'm aware of
there might be different or better or
worse ones, I don't know.
But good old Kyle provides a reaction
time to hooks for standalone functions.
So take a look at that if
you're interested in that.
There's also view ID adopted
hooks pretty heavily.
I don't really know much more than that
other than they're very react like.
Yeah, so it's a paradigm, it's like
object oriented programming, right?
It's not specific to a language,
it's just how you choose to write code.
>> And what is the purpose of using use
effect inside this custom hook instead of
having like a normal function?
>> Good question.
Well, the reason for that is you want
the first render to go completely
through start to finish and
not interrupted.
So that it goes through
the first render and
basically renders what we'd
call an empty state, right?
So that the user sees something.
The effects are then scheduled
to run immediately afterwards.
Immediate is a loaded word.
Functionally to us as human
beings immediately, right?
It's within milliseconds.
It's actually not immediate in
the sense of like next tick,
like no JS next to kind of seems right.
It's not dependably the next tick.
If that means something to you,
then great, if it doesn't anything to you,
then do not worry about it.
But functionally, it's immediate.
So that's the reason it allows you
to schedule something to run later.
And then react will handle scheduling and
then eventually evoking that.
And then the other thing about that,
by doing it this way,
we can then schedule it run yet later.
So for this example, every time that
animal runs later in the future, or sorry,
every time that animal changes in the
future, it knows to rerun this over and
over again.
Otherwise we'd have to get some sort of
state tracking ourselves that we would do,
which is not fun.
State tracking is my least
favorite thing to do.
So yeah, that's why we do it this way.
Yeah.
>> You might have already mentioned this,
but I know it's something that really
really threw me off the first time I made
my own hook, but you have to use, use at
the beginning of the hook or react to
Freecad, you have to say use breed list.
>> Yes.
So the name here use breed,
this is very intentional.
If you don't call it that, I think
the hooks, ES lint thing will freak out.
And then the other thing is,
you'll actually get like a bunch of
like free error checking from that ES
lint library by calling it use
breed list or use whatever, right?
Something else that's just
kind of cool to think about.
So we have search params here, and
then we're gonna invoke
useBreedList in here, right?
How is it able to track the layer of
depth here of like this is called inside
of this one, like this use state
is called inside of this one,
this use effect is called
inside of this one?
And the answer to this question is,
it doesn't cuz it doesn't care, right?
It doesn't matter, it just called
the same hooks in the same order.
As long as we're not doing for
loops or if statements,
it's always gonna be called in
the same order no matter what, right?
So it doesn't actually care about
the depth of the call stack there because
the first time this is
called it gets this,
the second time it gets gets
called it gets this, right?
And it goes in the same order
every time no matter the depth.
>> I noticed then you mentioned
the name useBreedList.
This component, Pet app and
search parameters all started
with a capital letter.
Is that the reasoning for
the lowercase U in useBreedList?
Is that it's required if
you're declaring a hook?
Is that accurate to say?
>> Let's go with the the name
of the function, yes.
>> Like,
I cannot call this capital U useBreedList.
One that implies that it's of component,
which is not, that's less of a big deal.
But then it won't detect that it's a hook.
In which case,
all that stuff we were talking about will
freak out about all that stuff, right?
As far as like the file name,
that's just useful, it's not required.
But there's no reason I
would ever capitalize this.
Yeah, it just wouldn't be a good idea.
>> Cuz you'd prefer to name the file
name after the primary component?
>> In general, yeah.
>> Cool, thank you.
>> Yeap.
Yeah, in fact,
let's go finish this out really quick.
So up here we're gonna say import
useBreedList from useBreedList.
So this is super useful just because if
I look at us breed list I look at that I
immediately know that that is a hook,
right?
And that just makes it super
useful to navigate a project with.
And I mean, I think I've repeated this in
almost every course that I've taught here.
And I probably stole this from Kyle
Simpsons talk one of the times I saw him,
its code is communication, right?
It's first for humans reading your
code and secondary for computers,
like invoking it, right?
If it was first for computers we'd
all be writing assembly still, right?
Because that's what makes
computers go faster.
We can do like much more low level
high performance kind of things, but
the reason why we don't write everything
in assembly or binary, directly,
is because code is communication.
We read these highly abstract languages
because they're easier to communicate
between each other, right?
So if I hand you this code, I'm gonna
do whatever I can to make it the most
comprehensible to you, and
then secondarily useful to a computer.
It's basically like notes we pass each
other that just happened to be executable
by a computer.
It's very useful to think of all of your
code in terms of that as like, what am I
saying to the next person that resists
high probability is gonna be future you.
So how do I not piss off future me?
If you know how to do that
I haven't figured out yet,
cuz future Brian's a jerk.
Actually past Brian's
a bigger jerk though.
Screw that guy.
Anyway.
So here line 11,
what we wanna do now is replace this,
Breeds equals useBreedList and
we're gonna pass it, animal.
And this got upset, no.
[LAUGH] So now it says unloaded,
I'm gonna hit OK and it's gonna say,
maybe loaded, I don't know,
this is ridiculous though.
Loading, loaded, [LAUGH]
>> Off the alert.
>> Yeah.
I forgot to did that.
See I told you pass Brian, huge jerk.
[LAUGH]
>> That's hilarious.
That's like the funniest thing
I've done in code in a while.
Anyway, this is actually kind of probably
useful to illustrate how the hook is.
No, so it has only called
unloaded right now, right?
And if I change this,
there's nothing here and breed this.
But if I go in and
change this to be dog, right?
And then cause loading,
alerts will wait, right?
So now if I hit OK again,
it'll call loaded.
And he probably just said don't allow
Brian to give you any more alerts.
[LAUGH] And
now if you look here instead of breed,
you'll actually see all of
the breeds coming back from the API.
Pretty cool, right?
And now we have this like useBreedList
custom hook that anytime in
the future if we read another
component that needs to see breeds,
maybe that's like in our
administrator tools, or I don't know,
something else that would ever need to
see breeds, all we have to do is load
this custom hook and feed an animal and
all sudden we get alerts galore.
Also definitely going to your
use read this and delete that.
Unholy abomination of code.
Never use alert.
Let me rephrase that, never,
ever use alert in your code.
Just poor code, which is why I did it.
So that is the basic gist of what a custom
hook is when you're gonna use them.
Honestly, I don't end up writing them all
the time, I only write them sometimes.
Again, when you're doing like a huge block
of here's a bunch of things that I'm
doing that could be reusable.
It's like basically a component of a hook,
right?
Or actually probably
a better way of something.
It's composability is really what it
actually lends to this equation, right?
So now I can have several hooks and
I can compose them together
to get interesting and
new derivative functionality.
Now I've heard people say that they'll
never call like use state directly in
a function, they always compose
that into like a custom hook.
So what you would do if you were up
that mindset, which again, I am not.
But if I were, I would take all of these
things and basically make this like
a search params state custom hook
that would handle all of this and
then at the top of this I would have
one hook that basically would be like,
constant use params search
like hook there, right?
And it would encapsulate
all of that in one hook.
Some people like that cuz I think it
makes their components look cleaner.
I think it makes it
look harder to read and
I'm very against harder to read things.
I think it's okay for things to be
long as long as they're okay to read.